In the time since the end of communism and isolationism, Albania has extended its responsibilities and position in 
continental and international affairs, developing and establishing friendly relations with other countries around the 
world. The country's foreign policy priorities are its accession into the European Union (EU), the international 
recognition of Kosovo and the expulsion of Cham Albanians, as well as helping and protecting the rights of the Albanians 
in Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Greece, Serbia, Italy and the Diaspora.[172]

Albania's admission into the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) was considered by Albanian politicians 
to be a significant ambition for the country's foreign policy. The country has been extensively engaged with the 
NATO and has maintained its position as a stability factor and a strong ally of the United States and the European 
Union (EU) in the region of the Balkans. Albania maintains strong ties with the United States ever after it supported 
the Albania's independence and democracy.[173] Nowadays, both countries have signed a number of agreements and treaties. 
In 2007, Albania welcomed George W. Bush who became the first President of the United States ever to visit the country.

Albania and Kosovo are culturally, socially and economically very closely rooted due to the Albanian majority 
population in Kosovo. In 1998, the country contributed in supporting allied efforts to end the humanitarian 
tragedy in Kosovo and secure the peace after the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia.

Albania has been an active member of the United Nations since 1955. They country took on membership for the United 
Nations Economic and Social Council from 2005 to 2007 as well as in 2012.[174] It served as vice president of the 
ECOSOC in 2006 and 2013.[174] In 2014, it also joined the United Nations Human Rights Council from 2015 to 2017 and 
was elected vice president in 2015.[175] Albania is a full member of numerous international organisations inclusively 
the Council of Europe, International Organisation for Migration, World Health Organization, Union for the Mediterranean, 
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, International Monetary Fund, 
World Trade Organization and La Francophonie.